languages/bem-css.md, before:

# BEM CSS

On some of our projects we use The **Block, Element, Modifier** methodology (commonly referred to as BEM) for CSS class naming. The main aim of the [BEM methodology](http://getbem.com/) is to speed up the development process and ease the teamwork of developers.

It is worth noting that we use a naming scheme based on BEM, but adapted by [Nicolas Gallagher](http://nicolasgallagher.com/about-html-semantics-front-end-architecture/), and detailed in [this post](http://csswizardry.com/2013/01/mindbemding-getting-your-head-round-bem-syntax/) by Harry Roberts.

BEM naming follows this pattern:
```css
/* Block component */
.block {}

/* Element that depends upon the block */
.block__element {}

/* Modifier that changes the style of the block */
.block--modifier {}
```

Class names should be **lowercase** with words separated by hyphens.

- Good `alert-box` or
- Bad `alertBox` or `AlertBox`

## Examples

**Block**: Unique, meaningful names for a logical unit of style. Avoid excessive shorthand.
- Good: `.alert-box` or `.button`
- Bad: `.feature` or `.content` or `.btn`

**Element**: styles that only apply to children of a block. Elements can also be blocks themselves. Class name is a concatenation of the block name, two underscores and the element name. Examples:
- `.alert-box__close`
- `.button__icon`

**Modifier**: override or extend the base styles of a block or element with modifier styles. Class name is a concatenation of the block (or element) name, two hyphens and the modifier name. Examples:
- `.alert-box--success`
- `.button--expanded`

## BEM Best practices

Don't `@extend` block modifiers with the block base, always require that the base/unmodified class is present
- Good: `<div class="my-block my-block--modifier">`
- Bad: `<div class="my-block--modifier">`

Don't create elements inside elements. If you find yourself needing this, consider converting your element into a block.
- Bad: `.alert-box__close__button`

Choose your modifiers wisely. These two rules have very different meaning:
```scss
.block--modifier .block__element { color: red; }
.block__element--modifier { color: red; }
```

## Nesting

If you are using a CSS pre-processor, excessive nesting can be avoided by using smart class naming (with the help of BEM). Avoid nesting selectors more than _3 levels_ deep, and prefer using nesting as a convenience to extend the parent selector over targeting nested elements. For example:

```scss
.block {
    padding: 24px;

    &--modifier {
        padding: 12px;
    }

    &__element {
        color: $white;
    }
}
```

Targeting a BEM element/modifier from within a nested block rule (see above) should be done with caution. If your selectors contain a large number of declarations then you should consider moving the element out of the nested rule to make them more readable, and easier to follow. Always adhere to the [KISS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/KISS_principle) principle. You can target a modifier as follows, whilst keeping the element separate for better readability:

```scss
.block {
    &--modifier { // compiles to .block--modifier
        text-align: center;
    }
}
.block__element {
    color: red;

    &--modifier { // compiles to .block__element--modifier
        color: blue;
    }
}
```

Commit message:

update the naming style to match mosaic

languages/bem-css.md, after:

# BEM CSS

On some of our projects we use The **Block, Element, Modifier** methodology (commonly referred to as BEM) for CSS class naming. The main aim of the [BEM methodology](http://getbem.com/) is to speed up the development process and ease the teamwork of developers.

It is worth noting that we use a naming scheme based on BEM, but adapted by [Nicolas Gallagher](http://nicolasgallagher.com/about-html-semantics-front-end-architecture/), and detailed in [this post](http://csswizardry.com/2013/01/mindbemding-getting-your-head-round-bem-syntax/) by Harry Roberts.

BEM naming follows this pattern:
```css
/* Block component */
.block {}

/* Element that depends upon the block */
.block__element {}

/* Modifier that changes the style of the block */
.block--modifier {}
```

## Naming Style

All class names should be train-case - all lowercase, words separated by a hyphen. So ```.alert-box``` and not ```.alertBox``` or ```.AlertBox``` or ```.Alert-Box```.

## Examples

**Block**: Unique, meaningful names for a logical unit of style. Avoid excessive shorthand.
- Good: `.alert-box` or `.button`
- Bad: `.feature` or `.content` or `.btn`

**Element**: styles that only apply to children of a block. Elements can also be blocks themselves. Class name is a concatenation of the block name, two underscores and the element name. Examples:
- `.alert-box__close`
- `.button__icon`

**Modifier**: override or extend the base styles of a block or element with modifier styles. Class name is a concatenation of the block (or element) name, two hyphens and the modifier name. Examples:
- `.alert-box--success`
- `.button--expanded`

## BEM Best practices

Don't `@extend` block modifiers with the block base, always require that the base/unmodified class is present
- Good: `<div class="my-block my-block--modifier">`
- Bad: `<div class="my-block--modifier">`

Don't create elements inside elements. If you find yourself needing this, consider converting your element into a block.
- Bad: `.alert-box__close__button`

Choose your modifiers wisely. These two rules have very different meaning:
```scss
.block--modifier .block__element { color: red; }
.block__element--modifier { color: red; }
```

## Nesting

If you are using a CSS pre-processor, excessive nesting can be avoided by using smart class naming (with the help of BEM). Avoid nesting selectors more than _3 levels_ deep, and prefer using nesting as a convenience to extend the parent selector over targeting nested elements. For example:

```scss
.block {
    padding: 24px;

    &--modifier {
        padding: 12px;
    }

    &__element {
        color: $white;
    }
}
```

Targeting a BEM element/modifier from within a nested block rule (see above) should be done with caution. If your selectors contain a large number of declarations then you should consider moving the element out of the nested rule to make them more readable, and easier to follow. Always adhere to the [KISS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/KISS_principle) principle. You can target a modifier as follows, whilst keeping the element separate for better readability:

```scss
.block {
    &--modifier { // compiles to .block--modifier
        text-align: center;
    }
}
.block__element {
    color: red;

    &--modifier { // compiles to .block__element--modifier
        color: blue;
    }
}
```
