practices/language.md, before:

# Language

[Discrimination](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Discrimination) is prohibited under law in the UK and many other countries.

Language is our main form of communication and it plays a powerful role both in contributing to and in eliminating discrimination.

Language influences thinking. For example, Hebrew uses gender markers, whereas Finnish doesn’t mark gender at all. A study done in the 1980s<sup>[\[1\]][wiley]</sup> found that kids who spoke Hebrew knew their own genders a year earlier than those who grew up speaking Finnish.

Inclusive language is language that is free from words, phrases or tones that reflect prejudiced, stereotyped or discriminatory views of particular people or groups. It is also language that doesn't deliberately or inadvertently exclude people from being seen as part of a group<sup>[\[2\]][govau]</sup>.

We are commited to use inclusive, non-discriminatory language in every written or verbal communication.

## Unacceptable language

Inappropriate or unacceptable language highlights perceived or actual differences between people. The use of insensitive and inappropriate language can create a hostile environment for people who have protected characteristics, as outlined in the [Equality Act 2010](http://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2010/15/contents).

Stereotyping means presuming a range of things about people based on one or two of their personal characteristics such as their appearance, apparent intelligence, personality or character, or their gender, sexual orientation, race, ethnicity, age, location, socioeconomic status or disability. We don't use language that reinforces stereotypes.


## Examples


### Genderless language

* We prefer to recast sentences as plural to avoid both the sexist and antiquated universal default to male pronouns and the awkward use of _he_ or _she_, _him_ or _her_ and the like:

Bad:
> Each student must complete his or her homework.

Good:
> All students must complete their homework

When such a rewrite is impossible, we prefer to use the singular _they_. We also use _they_ as the genderless pronoun, in references to people who identify as neither male nor female.

This mirrors the guidelines introduced by the Washington Post<sup>[\[3\]][post]</sup>.


### _Bro_ language

* We avoid examples that use _bro_ and _manly_ language, even when using verbal communication.

Bad:
> Server: Hello.
>
> Client: Hey _bro_, I have a message for you.

Good:
> Server: Hello.
>
> Client: Hey server, I have a message for you.

Bad:
> Hey guys!

Good:
> Hey people!
> Hey team!


### Disability

Using inclusive language is critical when writing about accessibility. When possible, we suggest to use gov.uk guidance: [Inclusive language: words to use and avoid when writing about disability](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/inclusive-communication/inclusive-language-words-to-use-and-avoid-when-writing-about-disability)


[wiley]: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/j.1467-1770.1982.tb00973.x/abstract "Language environment and gender identity attainment"
[govau]: https://www.education.tas.gov.au/.../Documents/Guidelines-for-Inclusive-Language.pdf "Guidelines for Inclusive Language"
[post]: http://www.poynter.org/2015/the-washington-post-will-allow-singular-they/387542/ "The Washington Post will allow singular ‘they’"

Commit message:

add accessibility and disablity language guide

practices/language.md, after:

# Language

[Discrimination](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Discrimination) is prohibited under law in the UK and many other countries.

Language is our main form of communication and it plays a powerful role both in contributing to and in eliminating discrimination.

Language influences thinking. For example, Hebrew uses gender markers, whereas Finnish doesn’t mark gender at all. A study done in the 1980s<sup>[\[1\]][wiley]</sup> found that kids who spoke Hebrew knew their own genders a year earlier than those who grew up speaking Finnish.

Inclusive language is language that is free from words, phrases or tones that reflect prejudiced, stereotyped or discriminatory views of particular people or groups. It is also language that doesn't deliberately or inadvertently exclude people from being seen as part of a group<sup>[\[2\]][govau]</sup>.

We are commited to use inclusive, non-discriminatory language in every written or verbal communication.

## Unacceptable language

Inappropriate or unacceptable language highlights perceived or actual differences between people. The use of insensitive and inappropriate language can create a hostile environment for people who have protected characteristics, as outlined in the [Equality Act 2010](http://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2010/15/contents).

Stereotyping means presuming a range of things about people based on one or two of their personal characteristics such as their appearance, apparent intelligence, personality or character, or their gender, sexual orientation, race, ethnicity, age, location, socioeconomic status or disability. We don't use language that reinforces stereotypes.


## Examples


### Genderless language

* We prefer to recast sentences as plural to avoid both the sexist and antiquated universal default to male pronouns and the awkward use of _he_ or _she_, _him_ or _her_ and the like:

Bad:
> Each student must complete his or her homework.

Good:
> All students must complete their homework

When such a rewrite is impossible, we prefer to use the singular _they_. We also use _they_ as the genderless pronoun, in references to people who identify as neither male nor female.

This mirrors the guidelines introduced by the Washington Post<sup>[\[3\]][post]</sup>.


### _Bro_ language

* We avoid examples that use _bro_ and _manly_ language, even when using verbal communication.

Bad:
> Server: Hello.
>
> Client: Hey _bro_, I have a message for you.

Good:
> Server: Hello.
>
> Client: Hey server, I have a message for you.

Bad:
> Hey guys!

Good:
> Hey people!
> Hey team!


### Disability

Using inclusive language is critical when writing about accessibility. Avoid references that dehumanise or 'other' people, or that cast them as helpless victims. Never use collective nouns like "the disabled" or "the blind" - these words are descriptors, not group labels. 

Use positive language that emphasises abilities rather than limitations. Consider whether you need to refer to a disability at all - for example, instead of writing about "users who are unable to use a mouse", perhaps you can be more precise with "keyboard users", or "users of alternative input devices". 

We _don't_ say this:

```
The disabled.
Dyslexics. 
Susan is a victim of blindness.
People suffering from deafness.
Users who cannot see a screen.
```

We say this:

```
Disabled people. 
Dyslexic people.
Susan is blind.
Deaf people. 
Screenreader users / blind users.
```

The Special Interest Group on Accessible Computing (SIGACCESS) has published a [comprehensive guide to writing about disability][http://www.sigaccess.org/welcome-to-sigaccess/resources/accessible-writing-guide/] within the context of science and technology. 

You may also find the more general [gov.uk inclusive language guidance][https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/inclusive-communication/inclusive-language-words-to-use-and-avoid-when-writing-about-disability] helpful. 


[wiley]: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/j.1467-1770.1982.tb00973.x/abstract "Language environment and gender identity attainment"
[govau]: https://www.education.tas.gov.au/.../Documents/Guidelines-for-Inclusive-Language.pdf "Guidelines for Inclusive Language"
[post]: http://www.poynter.org/2015/the-washington-post-will-allow-singular-they/387542/ "The Washington Post will allow singular ‘they’"
