practices/managing-node-projects.md, before:

# Managing Node.js-based projects and dependencies

- [Specifying versions of node](#specifying-versions-of-node)
    - [Run `nvm use` before `npm install`](#run-nvm-use-before-npm-install)
        - [Automatically running `nvm use`](#automatically-running-nvm-use)
- [Specifying versions of dependencies](#specifying-versions-of-dependencies)
    - [Run-time dependencies](#run-time-dependencies)
        - [Examples](#examples)
    - [Development dependencies](#development-dependencies)
        - [<a name="examples-1">Examples</a>](#a-nameexamples-1examplesa)
    - [Classifying "built" run-time dependencies](#classifying-built-run-time-dependencies)
- [Publishing projects on NPM](#publishing-projects-on-npm)
    - [Naming projects](#naming-projects)
- [Dependency management tools](#dependency-management-tools)
- [Handling dependencies from third parties](#handling-dependencies-from-third-parties)

The following guide describes how we use node and manage package dependencies in [Springer Nature Node.js-based projects](https://github.com/springernature?utf8=%E2%9C%93&q=&type=public&language=javascript).


## Specifying versions of node

It's important to specify which versions of node your application expects. There are two ways of doing this, and you're encouraged to do both.

1. The [`engines`](https://docs.npmjs.com/files/package.json#engines) field in `package.json`:
    * `engines` is important if authoring libraries. Let's assume we're using a different version of node to that specified in `engines` field for package `foo`.
    When running `npm install` to install `foo`'s dependencies, `npm` will warn about the problem.
    When `npm install`ing a package _which depends on_ `foo`, `npm` will warn and error.
    * Some deployment environments also respect it.
    * It makes compatibility requirements explicit to developers working on your application.
1. Using an `.nvmrc` file:
    * An `.nvmrc` file is a configuration file for `nvm` ([Node Version Manager](https://github.com/creationix/nvm)).
    `nvm` enables you to use different versions of node for different projects, on a per-directory basis.
    Your project should include an [`.nvmrc` file](https://github.com/creationix/nvm#nvmrc) in the root directory of the project to specify which version(s) of node are compatible.
    You can then run `nvm use` to use the right version of node. Additionally [Travis respects `.nvmrc` files](https://docs.travis-ci.com/user/languages/javascript-with-nodejs/#specifying-nodejs-versions-using-nvmrc), so using one will simplify your Travis configuration.

### Run `nvm use` before `npm install`

You should always ensure you're using the correct version of node (and implicitly `npm`) before doing an `npm install`.

Running `nvm use` before `npm install` is good because:
1. It make installs _more_ predictable, which minimises "but it works on my machine" issues.
1. It minimises changes to the `package-lock.json` (if your project is comitting that file).

A problem with using `npm install` is that it doesn't guarantee reproducible builds, as neither the `package.json` nor `package-lock.json` is a source of authority for what's installed.

Better is to use a version of node that ships with `npm` version 5.7.0 or higher ([node v10.3+ or 8.12+](https://nodejs.org/en/download/releases/)). This is because `npm` 5.7.0+ supports the `ci` argument, which is good because **`npm ci` will always install predictably**, using the `package-lock.json` as a source of authority.

(You could use `npm ci` by specifing a newer version of `npm` than is recommended for your [particular version of node](https://nodejs.org/en/download/releases/), but `npm` is itself written in node and [only supports certain node versions](https://github.com/npm/cli/blob/latest/lib/utils/unsupported.js).)

#### Automatically running `nvm use`

To avoid accidentally forgetting to run `nvm use` before working on a node project, there are useful shell extensions which will do it for you 
([zsh](https://github.com/creationix/nvm#calling-nvm-use-automatically-in-a-directory-with-a-nvmrc-file), 
[bash](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/23556330/run-nvm-use-automatically-every-time-theres-a-nvmrc-file-on-the-directory)), 
which are well worth installing!

## Specifying versions of dependencies

As a general rule, we tend to follow a conservative approach when specifying versions for the dependencies of our packages. We only allow PATCH version ranges for [run-time dependencies](#run-time-dependencies) and MINOR + PATCH version ranges for [dev dependencies](#development-dependencies). This helps us ensure consistency between different environments, as we can't know for sure in what environment the app is going to be running, and prevent breakage caused by major or minor updates in dependencies.

We find that the this approach strikes a good balance between the potential breakage caused by less restrictive versions and the maintenance needed when restricting the dependencies to a specific version through the use of `npm shrinkwrap` or similar tools.

We use some [dependency management tools](#dependency-management-tools) to help us keep our apps up to date when new versions of their dependencies are released.


### Run-time dependencies

[Run-time dependencies](https://docs.npmjs.com/files/package.json#dependencies) are modules that are required for your application to run, independently of the environment or mode (e.g. development vs production) used.

These are defined in the `dependencies` section of the `package.json` file.

Version numbers for run-time dependencies are defined using a tilde `~` plus a full version number in the `MAJOR.MINOR.PATCH` form. For a package version specified as `~2.3.4` this means that all releases from `2.3.4` (inclusive) up to, but not including `2.4.0` are acceptable.

Specifying the versions in this way ensures that:
* We can easily get bugfixes made to the dependencies when these have been released as a PATCH.
* We don't expose the users of our modules to an unnecessary risk if one of our dependencies releases a MINOR update that breaks our app.
* Dependencies in early lifecycle projects (Version `0.MINOR.PATCH`) are traditionally considered of beta quality, or undergoing heavy development, and any minor could potentially contain breaking changes. Limiting the scope to PATCH updates heavily reduces the chance of our app breaking.
* The behaviour when installing the dependencies is basically as predictable as possible ([Principle of least astonishment](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Principle_of_least_astonishment)) without the use of npm-shrinkwrap or similar tools.

Don't use wildcards (i.e. `*`, `x`) in the package numbers, or keywords like `latest`. Not only they make the version numbers harder to read but they also make it harder to predict what exact versions will be installed.

If you use `npm install --save` a lot, you may want to change npm's config so it uses tilde by default when saving dependencies:

```sh
npm config set save-prefix '~'
```


#### Examples

We do this:
```json
{
  "dependencies": {
    "boomcatch": "~1.2.0",
    "dustmite": "~1.0.0",
    "hasbin": "~0.8.0",
    "shunter": "~4.2.1",
    "thundermole": "~1.0.3",
    "truffler": "~1.1.0"
  }
}
```

We _don't_ do this:
```json
{
  "dependencies": {
    "boomcatch": "latest",
    "dustmite": "*",
    "hasbin": "~1.1",
    "shunter": "~4",
    "thundermole": "^1.0.3",
    "truffler": "~1.x"
  }
}
```

[Optional dependencies](https://docs.npmjs.com/files/package.json#optionaldependencies), if present, should also use the same format as run-time dependencies.


### Development dependencies

[Development dependencies](https://docs.npmjs.com/files/package.json#devdependencies) are required during the development, testing, or build process of the app. For example, you may include a test runner, a minifier, a bundler, etc.

These are defined in the `devDependencies` section of the `package.json` file and are not used in production environments.

Version numbers for run-time dependencies are defined using a caret `^` plus a full version number in the `MAJOR.MINOR.PATCH` form. For a package version specified as `^2.3.4` this means that all releases from `2.3.4` (inclusive) up to, but not including `3.0.0` are acceptable.


#### <a name="examples-1">Examples</a>

We do this:

```json
{
  "devDependencies": {
    "jscs": "^2.0.0",
    "mocha": "^3.1.0",
    "xo": "^1.1.1"
  }
}
```

We _don't_ do this:
```json
{
  "dependencies": {
    "jscs": "latest",
    "mocha": "*",
    "xo": "~1.1.1",
  }
}
```

### Classifying "built" run-time dependencies

While the classification of run-time and development dependencies is usually fairly clear-cut, there can be grey areas.  For example, dependencies that are required for the running of your website/app but are processed by a build tool (perhaps to concatenate or transpile them).

In these instances it's technically true that the dependency wouldn't need to be installed in production since only the built asset would be served.  However classifying it as a development dependency would mischaracterise its contribution to the application, and could lead it to be treated with less care than it deserves (including with a looser semver range, as per the [previous example](#examples-1)).

In an ideal world where HTTP2, modern JavaScript syntax, and ES6 modules are widely supported, there would be no need to transpile or concatenate JavaScript dependencies for browsers.  Instead, they'd be loaded using `import` statements and would be directly served from their installed location. Therefore they'd unambiguously be run-time dependencies, not development dependencies. In a Node.js environment this is already possible through its native support for CommonJS `require` statements.

As such, the fact that the asset may sometimes need to be built when serving it to a browser could be considered an accident of circumstance. It shouldn't change the classification of that dependency as a run-time dependency. In this way we maintain consistency between Node.js and web applications, and provide a clear distinction between tools that are only used in the _development_ of the application, and assets that directly contribute _functionality_ to the production application.

## Publishing projects on NPM

### Naming projects

We have a springernature organisation on NPM: [https://www.npmjs.com/org/springernature](https://www.npmjs.com/org/springernature).

You must use the `springernature` [scope](https://docs.npmjs.com/getting-started/scoped-packages) when publishing packages to NPM.

```
@springernature/project-name
```

This allows us to choose meanunful names for our projects without risking collisions with other existing open source projects.


## Dependency management tools

[Snyk](https://snyk.io/) is a tool to find, fix and monitor known vulnerabilities in Node.js applications. It also supports Ruby, Java, and other languages and platforms.

Snyk not only provides alerts when a new vulnerability is detected in one of the dependencies that we use, but also remediation options.

[Using components with known vulnerabilities caused 24% of the top 50 breaches](https://snyk.io/blog/owasp-top-10-breaches/). Keeping dependencies up-to-date is therefore crucial to maintain our standards of security.

Every node.js project must be added to the Springer Nature organisation in Snyk so it can be monitored for security vulnerabilities.

## Handling dependencies from third parties

A question that comes up from time-to-time is, "should we commit the contents of the `node_modules` directory or any selected module into version control?" On the whole we don't recommend this practice, as you should be able to install & deploy apps and their external dependencies reliably. Also some modules may be compiled differently on each host platform.

Wherever possible we suggest instead:

i) You could create a `package.json` file if not added already, where you can consider specifying package names and appropriate version numbers.

ii) For instances where you might need a specific package version or dependency, you can add in `package-lock` or `shrink-wrap` file. Consider the following cases:
- Our app requires dependency A which requires dependency B which requires dependency C which requires dependency D. There’s a vulnerability in package D, an update has been released. Using a package lock file will *prevent* the update from being used on a re-deploy, so our app will still be vulnerable, which is bad.
- Our app requires dependency A which requires dependency B which requires dependency C which requires dependency D. There’s a minor bump in dependency D that actually breaks things. Using a package lock file will *prevent* the app from breaking after a re-deploy, which is good.

iii) If you want to prevent NPM from opting for a package in a lock file, create a `.npmrc` file with following contents

```
package-lock=false
```

Commit message:

adds note about package-lock files

practices/managing-node-projects.md, after:

# Managing Node.js-based projects and dependencies

The following guide describes how we use node and manage package dependencies in [Springer Nature Node.js-based projects](https://github.com/springernature?utf8=%E2%9C%93&q=&type=public&language=javascript).

- [Specifying versions of node](#specifying-versions-of-node)
  - [Run `nvm use` before `npm install`](#run-nvm-use-before-npm-install)
    - [Automatically running `nvm use`](#automatically-running-nvm-use)
  - [Should I check in `package-lock.json` to version control?](#should-i-check-in-package-lockjson-to-version-control)
- [Specifying versions of dependencies](#specifying-versions-of-dependencies)
  - [Run-time dependencies](#run-time-dependencies)
    - [Examples](#examples)
  - [Development dependencies](#development-dependencies)
    - [Examples](#examples-1)
  - [Classifying "built" run-time dependencies](#classifying-built-run-time-dependencies)
- [Publishing projects on NPM](#publishing-projects-on-npm)
  - [Naming projects](#naming-projects)
- [Dependency management tools](#dependency-management-tools)
- [Handling dependencies from third parties](#handling-dependencies-from-third-parties)


## Specifying versions of node

It's important to specify which versions of node your application expects. There are two ways of doing this, and you're encouraged to do both.

1. The [`engines`](https://docs.npmjs.com/files/package.json#engines) field in `package.json`:
    * `engines` is important if authoring libraries. Let's assume we're using a different version of node to that specified in `engines` field for package `foo`.
    When running `npm install` to install `foo`'s dependencies, `npm` will warn about the problem.
    When `npm install`ing a package _which depends on_ `foo`, `npm` will warn and error.
    * Some deployment environments also respect it.
    * It makes compatibility requirements explicit to developers working on your application.
2. Using an `.nvmrc` file:
    * An `.nvmrc` file is a configuration file for `nvm` ([Node Version Manager](https://github.com/creationix/nvm)).
    `nvm` enables you to use different versions of node for different projects.
    Your project should include an [`.nvmrc` file](https://github.com/creationix/nvm#nvmrc) in the root directory of the project to specify which version(s) of node are compatible.
    You can then run `nvm use` to use the right version of node. Additionally [Travis respects `.nvmrc` files](https://docs.travis-ci.com/user/languages/javascript-with-nodejs/#specifying-nodejs-versions-using-nvmrc), so using one will simplify your Travis configuration.

### Run `nvm use` before `npm install`

You should always ensure you're using the correct version of node (and implicitly `npm`) before doing an `npm install`.

Running `nvm use` before `npm install` is good because:
1. It make installs _more_ predictable, which minimises "but it works on my machine" issues.
1. It minimises changes to the `package-lock.json` (if your project is comitting that file).

A problem with using `npm install` is that it doesn't guarantee reproducible builds, as neither the `package.json` nor `package-lock.json` is a source of authority for what's installed.

Better is to use a version of node that ships with `npm` version 5.7.0 or higher ([node v10.3+ or 8.12+](https://nodejs.org/en/download/releases/)). This is because `npm` 5.7.0+ supports the `ci` argument, which is good because **`npm ci` will always install predictably**, using the `package-lock.json` as a source of authority.

(You could use `npm ci` by specifing a newer version of `npm` than is recommended for your [particular version of node](https://nodejs.org/en/download/releases/), but `npm` is itself written in node and [only supports certain node versions](https://github.com/npm/cli/blob/latest/lib/utils/unsupported.js).)

#### Automatically running `nvm use`

To avoid accidentally forgetting to run `nvm use` before working on a node project, there are useful shell extensions which will do it for you
([zsh](https://github.com/creationix/nvm#calling-nvm-use-automatically-in-a-directory-with-a-nvmrc-file),
[bash](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/23556330/run-nvm-use-automatically-every-time-theres-a-nvmrc-file-on-the-directory)),
which are well worth installing!

### Should I check in `package-lock.json` to version control?

If using a version of `npm` that supports the `ci` argument, yes you should, for two main reasons:

1. Predictable builds, as discussed above.
1. Dependency analysis tools (such as `npm audit` & `snyk`) can spot insecure dependencies anywhere in the dependency tree by analysing the `package-lock.json` file. Furthermore these tools can force patch version updates of insecure dependencies way down the tree, rather than having to wait for all the package maintainers down that branch of the tree to release new packages with updated dependencies. This would not be possible without a `package-lock.json`.

The downside is it requires developers to all use `nvm` (which is probably a good thing).

## Specifying versions of dependencies

As a general rule, we tend to follow a conservative approach when specifying versions for the dependencies of our packages. We only allow PATCH version ranges for [run-time dependencies](#run-time-dependencies) and MINOR + PATCH version ranges for [dev dependencies](#development-dependencies). This helps us ensure consistency between different environments, as we can't know for sure in what environment the app is going to be running, and prevent breakage caused by major or minor updates in dependencies.

We find that the this approach strikes a good balance between the potential breakage caused by less restrictive versions and the maintenance needed when restricting the dependencies to a specific version through the use of `npm shrinkwrap` or similar tools.

We use some [dependency management tools](#dependency-management-tools) to help us keep our apps up to date when new versions of their dependencies are released.


### Run-time dependencies

[Run-time dependencies](https://docs.npmjs.com/files/package.json#dependencies) are modules that are required for your application to run, independently of the environment or mode (e.g. development vs production) used.

These are defined in the `dependencies` section of the `package.json` file.

Version numbers for run-time dependencies are defined using a tilde `~` plus a full version number in the `MAJOR.MINOR.PATCH` form. For a package version specified as `~2.3.4` this means that all releases from `2.3.4` (inclusive) up to, but not including `2.4.0` are acceptable.

Specifying the versions in this way ensures that:
* We can easily get bugfixes made to the dependencies when these have been released as a PATCH.
* We don't expose the users of our modules to an unnecessary risk if one of our dependencies releases a MINOR update that breaks our app.
* Dependencies in early lifecycle projects (Version `0.MINOR.PATCH`) are traditionally considered of beta quality, or undergoing heavy development, and any minor could potentially contain breaking changes. Limiting the scope to PATCH updates heavily reduces the chance of our app breaking.
* The behaviour when installing the dependencies is basically as predictable as possible ([Principle of least astonishment](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Principle_of_least_astonishment)) without the use of npm-shrinkwrap or similar tools.

Don't use wildcards (i.e. `*`, `x`) in the package numbers, or keywords like `latest`. Not only they make the version numbers harder to read but they also make it harder to predict what exact versions will be installed.

If you use `npm install --save` a lot, you may want to change npm's config so it uses tilde by default when saving dependencies:

```sh
npm config set save-prefix '~'
```


#### Examples

We do this:
```json
{
  "dependencies": {
    "boomcatch": "~1.2.0",
    "dustmite": "~1.0.0",
    "hasbin": "~0.8.0",
    "shunter": "~4.2.1",
    "thundermole": "~1.0.3",
    "truffler": "~1.1.0"
  }
}
```

We _don't_ do this:
```json
{
  "dependencies": {
    "boomcatch": "latest",
    "dustmite": "*",
    "hasbin": "~1.1",
    "shunter": "~4",
    "thundermole": "^1.0.3",
    "truffler": "~1.x"
  }
}
```

[Optional dependencies](https://docs.npmjs.com/files/package.json#optionaldependencies), if present, should also use the same format as run-time dependencies.


### Development dependencies

[Development dependencies](https://docs.npmjs.com/files/package.json#devdependencies) are required during the development, testing, or build process of the app. For example, you may include a test runner, a minifier, a bundler, etc.

These are defined in the `devDependencies` section of the `package.json` file and are not used in production environments.

Version numbers for run-time dependencies are defined using a caret `^` plus a full version number in the `MAJOR.MINOR.PATCH` form. For a package version specified as `^2.3.4` this means that all releases from `2.3.4` (inclusive) up to, but not including `3.0.0` are acceptable.


#### Examples

We do this:

```json
{
  "devDependencies": {
    "jscs": "^2.0.0",
    "mocha": "^3.1.0",
    "xo": "^1.1.1"
  }
}
```

We _don't_ do this:
```json
{
  "dependencies": {
    "jscs": "latest",
    "mocha": "*",
    "xo": "~1.1.1",
  }
}
```

### Classifying "built" run-time dependencies

While the classification of run-time and development dependencies is usually fairly clear-cut, there can be grey areas.  For example, dependencies that are required for the running of your website/app but are processed by a build tool (perhaps to concatenate or transpile them).

In these instances it's technically true that the dependency wouldn't need to be installed in production since only the built asset would be served.  However classifying it as a development dependency would mischaracterise its contribution to the application, and could lead it to be treated with less care than it deserves (including with a looser semver range, as per the [previous example](#examples-1)).

In an ideal world where HTTP2, modern JavaScript syntax, and ES6 modules are widely supported, there would be no need to transpile or concatenate JavaScript dependencies for browsers.  Instead, they'd be loaded using `import` statements and would be directly served from their installed location. Therefore they'd unambiguously be run-time dependencies, not development dependencies. In a Node.js environment this is already possible through its native support for CommonJS `require` statements.

As such, the fact that the asset may sometimes need to be built when serving it to a browser could be considered an accident of circumstance. It shouldn't change the classification of that dependency as a run-time dependency. In this way we maintain consistency between Node.js and web applications, and provide a clear distinction between tools that are only used in the _development_ of the application, and assets that directly contribute _functionality_ to the production application.

## Publishing projects on NPM

### Naming projects

We have a springernature organisation on NPM: [https://www.npmjs.com/org/springernature](https://www.npmjs.com/org/springernature).

You must use the `springernature` [scope](https://docs.npmjs.com/getting-started/scoped-packages) when publishing packages to NPM.

```
@springernature/project-name
```

This allows us to choose meanunful names for our projects without risking collisions with other existing open source projects.


## Dependency management tools

[Snyk](https://snyk.io/) is a tool to find, fix and monitor known vulnerabilities in Node.js applications. It also supports Ruby, Java, and other languages and platforms.

Snyk not only provides alerts when a new vulnerability is detected in one of the dependencies that we use, but also remediation options.

[Using components with known vulnerabilities caused 24% of the top 50 breaches](https://snyk.io/blog/owasp-top-10-breaches/). Keeping dependencies up-to-date is therefore crucial to maintain our standards of security.

Every node.js project must be added to the Springer Nature organisation in Snyk so it can be monitored for security vulnerabilities.

## Handling dependencies from third parties

A question that comes up from time-to-time is, "should we commit the contents of the `node_modules` directory or any selected module into version control?" On the whole we don't recommend this practice, as you should be able to install & deploy apps and their external dependencies reliably. Also some modules may be compiled differently on each host platform.

Wherever possible we suggest instead:

i) You could create a `package.json` file if not added already, where you can consider specifying package names and appropriate version numbers.

ii) For instances where you might need a specific package version or dependency, you can add in `package-lock` or `shrink-wrap` file. Consider the following cases:
- Our app requires dependency A which requires dependency B which requires dependency C which requires dependency D. There’s a vulnerability in package D, an update has been released. Using a package lock file will *prevent* the update from being used on a re-deploy, so our app will still be vulnerable, which is bad.
- Our app requires dependency A which requires dependency B which requires dependency C which requires dependency D. There’s a minor bump in dependency D that actually breaks things. Using a package lock file will *prevent* the app from breaking after a re-deploy, which is good.

iii) If you want to prevent NPM from opting for a package in a lock file, create a `.npmrc` file with following contents

```
package-lock=false
```
