technologies/css.md, before:


# CSS Style Guide -- WIP


This document aspires to outline the way we write CSS/SASS, and is based at the moment on the existing [Nature playbook(private)]. This is just a first pass, and is likely to be incomplete (and wrong) in places.  It's a living styleguide – it will grow and adapt as our practices do.

Projects should use [StyleLint] to enforce these rules. You can find _an example_ config file in the [config directory](config).

- [General Principles](#general-principles)
- [Code Style](#code-style)
- [Preprocessors](#preprocessors)
  - [Nesting](#nesting)
- [The Rules](#the-rules)
  - [Indentation](#indentation)
  - [At Rules](#at-rules)
  - [Blocks](#blocks)
  - [Colors](#colors)
  - [Comments](#comments)
  - [Declarations](#declarations)
  - [Functions](#functions)
  - [Media Features](#media-features)
  - [Numbers](#numbers)
  - [Rules](#rules)
  - [Selectors](#selectors)
  - [Value Lists](#value-lists)
  - [General](#general)
  - [Single Line CSS](#single-line-css)

## General Principles

We write our CSS using design patterns that aim to maximise maintainability and reuse;

- We make use of [OOCSS] to author CSS. Some teams make heavy use of utility classes, others less so.
- [BEM] naming conventions are used in some teams


## Code Style

Avoid using HTML tags in CSS selectors. And always prefer using a class over HTML tags (with some exceptions)

We _don't_ do this
```scss
div {}
div.modal {}
```

We do this:
```scss
.modal {}
```

Don't use [ids in selectors](http://csswizardry.com/2011/09/when-using-ids-can-be-a-pain-in-the-class/)

We _don't_ do this:
```scss
#header {}
```

We do this:
```scss
.header {}
```

Avoid using `margin-top`. Vertical margins [collapse](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Box_Model/Mastering_margin_collapsing). Always prefer `padding-top` or `margin-bottom` on preceding elements

We _don't_ do this:
```scss
.list__item {
    margin-top: 10px;
}
```

We do this:
```scss
.list__item {
    padding-top: 10px;
}

/* or */

.list__item {
    margin-bottom: 10px;
}
```

Avoid shorthand properties, if you aren't setting all the values in the property. This applies to all properties with a shorthand: border, margin, padding, font, etc.  
Use your judgement on this, as there are exceptions.

We _don't_ do this:
```scss
.modal {
    // overrides other values encapsulated by the shorthand property.
    // In this case, background-image and its associative properties are set to “none”
    background: $white;
    border: 1px;
}
```

We do this:
```scss
.modal {
    background-color: $white;
    border-width: 1px;
}
```

Don't use `!important`. If you must, leave a comment, and prioritise resolving specificity issues before resorting to `!important`.

## Preprocessors

Our preferred CSS preprocessor is [SASS](http://sass-lang.com/) using the [SCSS syntax](http://sass-lang.com/documentation/file.SCSS_FOR_SASS_USERS.html).

### Nesting

Nesting selectors increases specificity, meaning that overriding any CSS set therein needs to be targeted with an even more specific selector. This quickly becomes a significant maintenance issue, which makes excessive nesting [a bad idea](http://www.sitepoint.com/beware-selector-nesting-sass/). It can easily be avoided by using smart class naming. Avoid nesting selectors more than **3 levels** deep, and prefer using nesting as a convenience to extend the parent selector over targeting nested elements.

If possible, try and avoid using nesting for anything other than:

**Pseudo selectors and state selectors**. We do this:  
```scss
a {
    &:hover {
        text-decoration: underline;
    }
    &:focus {
        outline: 1px dashed #000;
    }
}

span {
    &::before {
        content: '\2022';
    }
}
```

**Items that semantically MUST sit within other items**. We do this:
```scss
ul {
    > li {
        display: inline;
    }
}

dl {
    > dt,
    > dd {
        display: inline-block;
    }
}

table {
    > tr {
        > th {
            background: #ccc;
        }
        > td {
            background: #eee;
        }
    }
}
```

**Non-js fallbacks/JS only styles**. We do this:
```scss
.class {
    .js & {
        display: none;
    }
    .no-js & {
        display: block;
    }
}
```

**Inline html tags within other elements**. We do this:
```scss
.class {
    span {}
    em {}
    small {}
    /* etc */
}
```

**Breakpoints**  
These should be nested within the relevant parent using `@include`.

One exception to these rules is targeting a BEM element from within a nested block rule. See the [BEM documentation][bem] for more information on BEM and nesting.

## The Rules

### Indentation

We indent our css using single tabs, not spaces. You can convert characters automatically in most editors, and you're advised to do this.

### At Rules

Always require an empty line before @rules except within a blockless group.

We _don't_ do this:

```css
a {} @media {}

a {}
@media {}
```

```css
@import url(x.css);

@import url(y.css);

@media print {}
```

We do this:

```css
a {}

@media {}
```

```css
@import url(x.css);
@import url(y.css);

@media print {}
```

### Blocks

There MUST be a newline after the closing brace.  
There MUST be a newline before the closing brace in multi-line blocks.  
There MUST be a single space before the closing brace in single-line blocks.  
There MUST be a newline after the opening brace in multi-line blocks.  
There MUST be a single space after the opening brace in single-line blocks.  
There MUST be a single space before the opening brace.  
Blocks MUST NOT be empty.

We _don't_ do this:

```css
a { color: pink; }b { color: red; }

a {
color: pink;}

a { color: pink;}

a{color: pink;
}

a {color: pink; }

a{ color: pink; }

a { }
```

We do this:

```css
a { color: pink; }

b {
    color: red;
    top: 0;
}
```

### Colors

Hex colors should be lowercase.  
We should use short notation for hex colors.  
Disallow invalid hex colors.

We _don't_ do this:

```css
a { color: #FFF; }

a { color: #ffffff; }

a { color: #00; }
```

We do this:

```css
a { color: #000; }

a { color: #fff; }

a { color: #a4a4a4; }
```

### Comments

There MUST be an empty line before comments _except_ for comments that are nested and the first child of their parent node.

We _don't_ do this:

```css
a {}
/* comment */

a {

  /* comment */
  color: pink;
}
```

We do this:

```css
a {}

/* comment */

b {}

a {
    /* comment */
    color: pink;
}
```

### Declarations

There MUST NOT be whitespace after the bang.  
There MUST be a single space before the bang.  
There MUST be a newline after the semicolon in multi-line rules.  
There MUST be a single space after the semicolon in single-line declaration blocks.  
There MUST NOT be whitespace before the semicolons.  
Limit the number of declarations within a single line declaration block to 1.  
There MUST be a newline after the colon if the declaration's value is multi-line.  
There MUST be a single space after the colon if the declaration's value is single-line.  
There MUST NOT be whitespace before the colon.

We _don't_ do this:

```css
a { color: pink ! important; }

a {
    color: pink; top: 0;
}

a { color: pink ; }

a { color:pink; }

a { color: pink; top: 0; }

a { color : pink }

a {
    box-shadow: 0 0 0 1px #5b9dd9,
        0 0 2px 1px rgba(30, 140, 190, 0.8);
}
```

We do this:

```css
a { color: pink !important; }

a { color: pink; }

a {
    color: pink;
    top: 0;
}

a {
    box-shadow:
        0 0 0 1px #5b9dd9,
        0 0 2px 1px rgba(30, 140, 190, 0.8);
}
```

### Functions

Disallow an unspaced operator within calc functions.  
There MUST be a newline after the commas in multi-line functions.  
There MUST be a single space after the commas in single-line functions.  
There MUST NOT be whitespace before the commas.  
There MUST be a newline inside the parentheses of multi-line functions.  
There MUST NOT be a whitespace inside the parentheses of single-line functions.  
There MUST be whitespace after the function.

We _don't_ do this:

```css
a { top: calc(1px+2px); }

a { top: calc(1px+ 2px); }

a { transform: translate(1,1) }

a { transform: translate(1 ,1) }

a { transform: translate(1
  ,1) }

a { transform: translate( 1, 1 ) }

a { transform: translate(1, 1 ) }

a { transform: translate(1, 1)scale(3); }
```

We do this:

```css
a { top: calc(1px + 2px); }

a { top: calc(calc(1em * 2) / 3); }

a { transform: translate(1, 1) }

a {
  transform: translate(1,
    1)
}

a { transform: translate(1, 1) scale(3); }

a {
  transform:
    translate(1, 1)
    scale(3);
}
```

### Media Features

There MUST be a single space after the colon.  
There MUST NOT be whitespace before the colon.  
There MUST be a single space after the range operator.  
There MUST be a single space before the range operator.  
There MUST be a newline after the commas in multi-line media query lists.  
There MUST be a single space after the commas in single-line media query lists.  
There MUST NOT be whitepace before the commas.  
There MUST NOT be whitespace on the inside the parentheses.

We _don't_ do this:

```css
@media (max-width:600px) {}

@media (max-width :600px) {}

@media (max-width : 600px) {}

@media (max-width>=600px) {}

@media (max-width >=600px) {}

@media (max-width>= 600px) {}

@media screen and (color),projection and (color) {}

@media screen and (color) ,projection and (color) {}

@media screen and (color)
, projection and (color) {}

@media ( max-width: 300px ) {}
```

We do this:

```css
@media (max-width: 600px) {}

@media (max-width >= 600px) {}

@media screen and (color), projection and (color) {}
```

### Numbers

There MUST be a leading zero.  
Disallow trailing zeros within numbers.  
Disallow units for zero lengths.

We _don't_ do this:

```css
a { line-height: .5; }

a { transform: translate(2px, .4px); }

a { top: 1.0px }

a { top: 1.01000px }

a { top: 0px }

a { top: 0.000em }
```

We do this:

```css
a { line-height: 0.5; }

a { transform: translate(2px, 0.4px); }

a { top: 1px }

a { top: 1.01px }

a { top: 0 } /* no unit */

a { transition-delay: 0s; } /* dimension */

a { top: 2in; }

a { top: 1.001vh }
```

### Rules

Disallow shorthand properties that override related longhand properties.  
There MUST be an empty line before multi-line rules.  
There MUST be a trailing semicolon.

We _don't_ do this:

```css
a {
    padding-left: 10px;
    padding: 20px;
}

a {
    transition-property: opacity;
    transition: opacity 1s linear;
}

a {
    border-top-width: 1px;
    top: 0;
    bottom: 3px;
    border: 2px solid blue;
}

a { color: pink; }
b { color: pink; }

a { color: pink }
```

We do this:

```css
a {
    padding: 10px;
    padding-left: 20px;
}

a { transition-property: opacity; }

a { transition: opacity 1s linear; }

a {
    transition-property: opacity;
    -webkit-transition: opacity 1s linear;
}

a { color: pink; }

b { color: pink; }

a { color: pink; }
```

### Selectors

There MUST be a single space after the combinators.  
There MUST be a single space before the combinators.  
There MUST be a newline after the commas.  
There MUST NOT be whitespace before the commas.

We _don't_ do this:

```css
a +b { color: pink; }

a+ b { color: pink; }

a>b { color: pink; }

a, b { color: pink; }

a ,b { color: pink; }

a
, b { color: pink; }

a
,
b { color: pink; }
```

We do this:

```css
a + b { color: pink; }

a,
b { color: pink; }
```

### Value Lists

There MUST be a newline after the commas in multi-line value lists.  
There MUST be a single space after the commas in single-line value lists.  
There MUST NOT be whitespace before the commas.

We _don't_ do this:

```css
a { background-size: 0
    , 0; }

a { background-size: 0,0; }

a { background-size: 0 ,0; }

a { background-size: 0 ,
      0; }
```

We do this:

```css
a { background-size: 0, 0; }

a { background-size: 0,
      0; }
```

### General

Limit the number of adjacent empty lines to 1.  
Disallow end-of-line whitespace.  
Strings MUST be wrapped with single quotes.  
Disallow missing end-of-file newlines in non-empty files.

We _don't_ do this:

```css
a { color: pink; }


b { color: pink; }

a { color: pink; }·

a { color: pink; }····

a { content: "x"; }

a[id="foo"] { color: pink; }
```

We do this:

```css
a { color: pink; }

b { color: pink; }

a { content: 'x'; }

a[id='foo'] { color: pink; }

a { color: pink; }
\n
/** ↑
 * This newline */
```

### Single Line CSS

A quick note on single line CSS. We allow single line CSS when there is only one declaration, but we shouldn't always use it. We only ever use single line CSS when there are groups of multiple CSS classes with one declaration, for example spacing, to aid legibility. In this case we also do not require a space between classes. So we would use it in the following example:

```css
.ma0 { margin: 0; }
.ma1 { margin: 1px; }
.ma2 { margin: 2px; }
.ma4 { margin: 4px; }
.ma6 { margin: 6px; }
.ma10 { margin: 10px; }
.ma15 { margin: 15px; }
.ma20 { margin: 20px; }
.ma30 { margin: 30px; }
.ma40 { margin: 40px; }
.ma50 { margin: 50px; }
.ma70 { margin: 70px; }
```

But in the following example we would not use it:

```css
.nowrap {
    white-space: nowrap;
}

.prewrap {
    word-wrap: break-word;
    white-space: pre-wrap;
}

.overflow-ellipsis {
    text-overflow: ellipsis;
}
```

[Nature playbook(private)]: https://github.com/nature/playbook
[bem]: https://github.com/springernature/frontend/practices/bem-css.md
[a hybrid of OOCSS and Atomic CSS]: https://github.com/springernature/frontend/practices/mosaic-css.md
[stylelint]: https://github.com/stylelint/stylelint
[debunked as a fallacy]: http://nicolasgallagher.com/about-html-semantics-front-end-architecture/
[rems bug in chrome]: http://stackoverflow.com/questions/20099844/chrome-not-respecting-rem-font-size-on-body-tag

Commit message:

add house style document, put a link to it in other docs

technologies/css.md, after:


# CSS Style Guide -- WIP


This document aspires to outline the way we write CSS/SASS, and is based at the moment on the existing [Nature playbook(private)]. This is just a first pass, and is likely to be incomplete (and wrong) in places.  It's a living styleguide – it will grow and adapt as our practices do.

Projects should use [StyleLint] to enforce these rules. You can find _an example_ config file in the [config directory](config).

- [General Principles](#general-principles)
- [Code Style](#code-style)
- [Preprocessors](#preprocessors)
  - [Nesting](#nesting)
- [The Rules](#the-rules)
  - [Indentation](#indentation)
  - [At Rules](#at-rules)
  - [Blocks](#blocks)
  - [Colors](#colors)
  - [Comments](#comments)
  - [Declarations](#declarations)
  - [Functions](#functions)
  - [Media Features](#media-features)
  - [Numbers](#numbers)
  - [Rules](#rules)
  - [Selectors](#selectors)
  - [Value Lists](#value-lists)
  - [General](#general)
  - [Single Line CSS](#single-line-css)

## General Principles

We write our CSS using design patterns that aim to maximise maintainability and reuse;

- We make use of [OOCSS] to author CSS. Some teams make heavy use of utility classes, others less so.
- [BEM] naming conventions are used in some teams

See our [house style document](../practices/house-style.md) to understand the rationale behind enforcement of style. 

## Code Style

Avoid using HTML tags in CSS selectors. And always prefer using a class over HTML tags (with some exceptions)

We _don't_ do this
```scss
div {}
div.modal {}
```

We do this:
```scss
.modal {}
```

Don't use [ids in selectors](http://csswizardry.com/2011/09/when-using-ids-can-be-a-pain-in-the-class/)

We _don't_ do this:
```scss
#header {}
```

We do this:
```scss
.header {}
```

Avoid using `margin-top`. Vertical margins [collapse](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Box_Model/Mastering_margin_collapsing). Always prefer `padding-top` or `margin-bottom` on preceding elements

We _don't_ do this:
```scss
.list__item {
    margin-top: 10px;
}
```

We do this:
```scss
.list__item {
    padding-top: 10px;
}

/* or */

.list__item {
    margin-bottom: 10px;
}
```

Avoid shorthand properties, if you aren't setting all the values in the property. This applies to all properties with a shorthand: border, margin, padding, font, etc.  
Use your judgement on this, as there are exceptions.

We _don't_ do this:
```scss
.modal {
    // overrides other values encapsulated by the shorthand property.
    // In this case, background-image and its associative properties are set to “none”
    background: $white;
    border: 1px;
}
```

We do this:
```scss
.modal {
    background-color: $white;
    border-width: 1px;
}
```

Don't use `!important`. If you must, leave a comment, and prioritise resolving specificity issues before resorting to `!important`.

## Preprocessors

Our preferred CSS preprocessor is [SASS](http://sass-lang.com/) using the [SCSS syntax](http://sass-lang.com/documentation/file.SCSS_FOR_SASS_USERS.html).

### Nesting

Nesting selectors increases specificity, meaning that overriding any CSS set therein needs to be targeted with an even more specific selector. This quickly becomes a significant maintenance issue, which makes excessive nesting [a bad idea](http://www.sitepoint.com/beware-selector-nesting-sass/). It can easily be avoided by using smart class naming. Avoid nesting selectors more than **3 levels** deep, and prefer using nesting as a convenience to extend the parent selector over targeting nested elements.

If possible, try and avoid using nesting for anything other than:

**Pseudo selectors and state selectors**. We do this:  
```scss
a {
    &:hover {
        text-decoration: underline;
    }
    &:focus {
        outline: 1px dashed #000;
    }
}

span {
    &::before {
        content: '\2022';
    }
}
```

**Items that semantically MUST sit within other items**. We do this:
```scss
ul {
    > li {
        display: inline;
    }
}

dl {
    > dt,
    > dd {
        display: inline-block;
    }
}

table {
    > tr {
        > th {
            background: #ccc;
        }
        > td {
            background: #eee;
        }
    }
}
```

**Non-js fallbacks/JS only styles**. We do this:
```scss
.class {
    .js & {
        display: none;
    }
    .no-js & {
        display: block;
    }
}
```

**Inline html tags within other elements**. We do this:
```scss
.class {
    span {}
    em {}
    small {}
    /* etc */
}
```

**Breakpoints**  
These should be nested within the relevant parent using `@include`.

One exception to these rules is targeting a BEM element from within a nested block rule. See the [BEM documentation][bem] for more information on BEM and nesting.

## The Rules

### Indentation

We indent our css using single tabs, not spaces. You can convert characters automatically in most editors, and you're advised to do this.

### At Rules

Always require an empty line before @rules except within a blockless group.

We _don't_ do this:

```css
a {} @media {}

a {}
@media {}
```

```css
@import url(x.css);

@import url(y.css);

@media print {}
```

We do this:

```css
a {}

@media {}
```

```css
@import url(x.css);
@import url(y.css);

@media print {}
```

### Blocks

There MUST be a newline after the closing brace.  
There MUST be a newline before the closing brace in multi-line blocks.  
There MUST be a single space before the closing brace in single-line blocks.  
There MUST be a newline after the opening brace in multi-line blocks.  
There MUST be a single space after the opening brace in single-line blocks.  
There MUST be a single space before the opening brace.  
Blocks MUST NOT be empty.

We _don't_ do this:

```css
a { color: pink; }b { color: red; }

a {
color: pink;}

a { color: pink;}

a{color: pink;
}

a {color: pink; }

a{ color: pink; }

a { }
```

We do this:

```css
a { color: pink; }

b {
    color: red;
    top: 0;
}
```

### Colors

Hex colors should be lowercase.  
We should use short notation for hex colors.  
Disallow invalid hex colors.

We _don't_ do this:

```css
a { color: #FFF; }

a { color: #ffffff; }

a { color: #00; }
```

We do this:

```css
a { color: #000; }

a { color: #fff; }

a { color: #a4a4a4; }
```

### Comments

There MUST be an empty line before comments _except_ for comments that are nested and the first child of their parent node.

We _don't_ do this:

```css
a {}
/* comment */

a {

  /* comment */
  color: pink;
}
```

We do this:

```css
a {}

/* comment */

b {}

a {
    /* comment */
    color: pink;
}
```

### Declarations

There MUST NOT be whitespace after the bang.  
There MUST be a single space before the bang.  
There MUST be a newline after the semicolon in multi-line rules.  
There MUST be a single space after the semicolon in single-line declaration blocks.  
There MUST NOT be whitespace before the semicolons.  
Limit the number of declarations within a single line declaration block to 1.  
There MUST be a newline after the colon if the declaration's value is multi-line.  
There MUST be a single space after the colon if the declaration's value is single-line.  
There MUST NOT be whitespace before the colon.

We _don't_ do this:

```css
a { color: pink ! important; }

a {
    color: pink; top: 0;
}

a { color: pink ; }

a { color:pink; }

a { color: pink; top: 0; }

a { color : pink }

a {
    box-shadow: 0 0 0 1px #5b9dd9,
        0 0 2px 1px rgba(30, 140, 190, 0.8);
}
```

We do this:

```css
a { color: pink !important; }

a { color: pink; }

a {
    color: pink;
    top: 0;
}

a {
    box-shadow:
        0 0 0 1px #5b9dd9,
        0 0 2px 1px rgba(30, 140, 190, 0.8);
}
```

### Functions

Disallow an unspaced operator within calc functions.  
There MUST be a newline after the commas in multi-line functions.  
There MUST be a single space after the commas in single-line functions.  
There MUST NOT be whitespace before the commas.  
There MUST be a newline inside the parentheses of multi-line functions.  
There MUST NOT be a whitespace inside the parentheses of single-line functions.  
There MUST be whitespace after the function.

We _don't_ do this:

```css
a { top: calc(1px+2px); }

a { top: calc(1px+ 2px); }

a { transform: translate(1,1) }

a { transform: translate(1 ,1) }

a { transform: translate(1
  ,1) }

a { transform: translate( 1, 1 ) }

a { transform: translate(1, 1 ) }

a { transform: translate(1, 1)scale(3); }
```

We do this:

```css
a { top: calc(1px + 2px); }

a { top: calc(calc(1em * 2) / 3); }

a { transform: translate(1, 1) }

a {
  transform: translate(1,
    1)
}

a { transform: translate(1, 1) scale(3); }

a {
  transform:
    translate(1, 1)
    scale(3);
}
```

### Media Features

There MUST be a single space after the colon.  
There MUST NOT be whitespace before the colon.  
There MUST be a single space after the range operator.  
There MUST be a single space before the range operator.  
There MUST be a newline after the commas in multi-line media query lists.  
There MUST be a single space after the commas in single-line media query lists.  
There MUST NOT be whitepace before the commas.  
There MUST NOT be whitespace on the inside the parentheses.

We _don't_ do this:

```css
@media (max-width:600px) {}

@media (max-width :600px) {}

@media (max-width : 600px) {}

@media (max-width>=600px) {}

@media (max-width >=600px) {}

@media (max-width>= 600px) {}

@media screen and (color),projection and (color) {}

@media screen and (color) ,projection and (color) {}

@media screen and (color)
, projection and (color) {}

@media ( max-width: 300px ) {}
```

We do this:

```css
@media (max-width: 600px) {}

@media (max-width >= 600px) {}

@media screen and (color), projection and (color) {}
```

### Numbers

There MUST be a leading zero.  
Disallow trailing zeros within numbers.  
Disallow units for zero lengths.

We _don't_ do this:

```css
a { line-height: .5; }

a { transform: translate(2px, .4px); }

a { top: 1.0px }

a { top: 1.01000px }

a { top: 0px }

a { top: 0.000em }
```

We do this:

```css
a { line-height: 0.5; }

a { transform: translate(2px, 0.4px); }

a { top: 1px }

a { top: 1.01px }

a { top: 0 } /* no unit */

a { transition-delay: 0s; } /* dimension */

a { top: 2in; }

a { top: 1.001vh }
```

### Rules

Disallow shorthand properties that override related longhand properties.  
There MUST be an empty line before multi-line rules.  
There MUST be a trailing semicolon.

We _don't_ do this:

```css
a {
    padding-left: 10px;
    padding: 20px;
}

a {
    transition-property: opacity;
    transition: opacity 1s linear;
}

a {
    border-top-width: 1px;
    top: 0;
    bottom: 3px;
    border: 2px solid blue;
}

a { color: pink; }
b { color: pink; }

a { color: pink }
```

We do this:

```css
a {
    padding: 10px;
    padding-left: 20px;
}

a { transition-property: opacity; }

a { transition: opacity 1s linear; }

a {
    transition-property: opacity;
    -webkit-transition: opacity 1s linear;
}

a { color: pink; }

b { color: pink; }

a { color: pink; }
```

### Selectors

There MUST be a single space after the combinators.  
There MUST be a single space before the combinators.  
There MUST be a newline after the commas.  
There MUST NOT be whitespace before the commas.

We _don't_ do this:

```css
a +b { color: pink; }

a+ b { color: pink; }

a>b { color: pink; }

a, b { color: pink; }

a ,b { color: pink; }

a
, b { color: pink; }

a
,
b { color: pink; }
```

We do this:

```css
a + b { color: pink; }

a,
b { color: pink; }
```

### Value Lists

There MUST be a newline after the commas in multi-line value lists.  
There MUST be a single space after the commas in single-line value lists.  
There MUST NOT be whitespace before the commas.

We _don't_ do this:

```css
a { background-size: 0
    , 0; }

a { background-size: 0,0; }

a { background-size: 0 ,0; }

a { background-size: 0 ,
      0; }
```

We do this:

```css
a { background-size: 0, 0; }

a { background-size: 0,
      0; }
```

### General

Limit the number of adjacent empty lines to 1.  
Disallow end-of-line whitespace.  
Strings MUST be wrapped with single quotes.  
Disallow missing end-of-file newlines in non-empty files.

We _don't_ do this:

```css
a { color: pink; }


b { color: pink; }

a { color: pink; }·

a { color: pink; }····

a { content: "x"; }

a[id="foo"] { color: pink; }
```

We do this:

```css
a { color: pink; }

b { color: pink; }

a { content: 'x'; }

a[id='foo'] { color: pink; }

a { color: pink; }
\n
/** ↑
 * This newline */
```

### Single Line CSS

A quick note on single line CSS. We allow single line CSS when there is only one declaration, but we shouldn't always use it. We only ever use single line CSS when there are groups of multiple CSS classes with one declaration, for example spacing, to aid legibility. In this case we also do not require a space between classes. So we would use it in the following example:

```css
.ma0 { margin: 0; }
.ma1 { margin: 1px; }
.ma2 { margin: 2px; }
.ma4 { margin: 4px; }
.ma6 { margin: 6px; }
.ma10 { margin: 10px; }
.ma15 { margin: 15px; }
.ma20 { margin: 20px; }
.ma30 { margin: 30px; }
.ma40 { margin: 40px; }
.ma50 { margin: 50px; }
.ma70 { margin: 70px; }
```

But in the following example we would not use it:

```css
.nowrap {
    white-space: nowrap;
}

.prewrap {
    word-wrap: break-word;
    white-space: pre-wrap;
}

.overflow-ellipsis {
    text-overflow: ellipsis;
}
```

[Nature playbook(private)]: https://github.com/nature/playbook
[bem]: https://github.com/springernature/frontend/practices/bem-css.md
[a hybrid of OOCSS and Atomic CSS]: https://github.com/springernature/frontend/practices/mosaic-css.md
[OOCSS]: https://github.com/springernature/frontend/practices/oocss.md
[stylelint]: https://github.com/stylelint/stylelint
[debunked as a fallacy]: http://nicolasgallagher.com/about-html-semantics-front-end-architecture/
[rems bug in chrome]: http://stackoverflow.com/questions/20099844/chrome-not-respecting-rem-font-size-on-body-tag
